On the screen there is a picture from 1979 of the Sistine Chapel to Michelangelo's work.
It took 14 years from 1980 to 1994 to clean the grime off of Michelangelo's ceiling.
For years, people complained about the waiting for the scaffolding to come down and what a waste of time
This all was, but the restores of that ceiling, they weren't just waiting.
You see, they were going meticulously and removing centuries of soot.
And the product of that waiting, the product of their work is this.
That's the same exact ceiling.
Unbelievable, right?
14 years.
And much like those who complained about the waiting for the scaffolding and how detestable it looked and how long can this work take?
I mean, really, it's just one ceiling, like what's the big deal?
We can think that waiting on God is keeping us from the finish line.
In reality, the waiting is
the restoration.
What the people didn't know about the Sissy Chapel is while they were waiting, restoration was happening.
It was happening right in front of their face.
But they were just so impatient waiting for the finished product.
Similarly, God is doing a restoration in our waiting and He's cleaning off the soot of things like pride and the grime of hurry so that we can get back to our original image.
which if you go back to Genesis chapter one and chapter two is his image, an image that shines in a dark world.
You see, biblical waiting is not a holding pattern at an airport.
You ever had to wait at an airport?
If you've flown, you've waited.
The worst is when you get on the plane and now you cannot get off and you sit on the tarmac, right?
We often think that God's waiting, waiting in life is like sitting
On the tarmac, we're not going anywhere, we're not accomplishing anything.
At least if we were in the terminal, we could get a snack or a drink, right?
But that isn't waiting in the economy with God.
Waiting is this.
We're gonna see this from our passage in John 11.
Waiting in God's economy is active cultivation of the soul.
See, God is just not sitting us on a tarmac, wishing we were somewhere else.
actively cultivating our soul.
And oftentimes in a season that we don't like very much.
So Aaron Kierkegaard, who wrote The School of Patience, sounds like a book you do not want to read if you don't want to be convicted, right?
Said this, patience is the courage of the soul.
To wait is to refuse to let the external world dictate your internal peace.
So we find ourselves back in the book of John today, and I'm so glad.
I love topical preaching.
I love expositing some topics and looking at life matters and digging into mental health and the mission and all those things.
But at heart, I love to break down a book of the Bible.
And so I'm so happy to be back in John.
And where we find ourselves in John chapter 11 is Jesus waits.
He waits.
He waits when one of his best friends, Lazarus, is sick to the death.
He waits for days while Mary and Martha are desperately hoping their Lord will come and heal.
He waits while the disciples probably wondered, what are you waiting for?
You ever been there?
You ever been in a waiting season?
And you're like, God, what are you waiting for?
I'm praying your promises.
I know you can heal.
I know you can show up.
I know you got the power and the juice to make this thing go away or this to happen or to bring this.
What are you waiting for?
Are you waiting right now on God to show up in some area of your life?
I would imagine that most of the room, there is something you are waiting for.
Are you waiting for God to show himself faithful?
Are you waiting for God to show himself powerful, able,
That last one really hits me.
I want to remind you of our anthem this year where Courtney talked about it.
The year of overflow and our, our anthem for the year of overflow comes from the scripture from two Corinthians chapter nine, verse eight.
And the first part of it is so powerful to me.
It says this, and God is able.
God is able.
And most of our issues with waiting is not our question.
And if God is able, it's just, is he able to do it when I want him to do it?
I know you got the power.
I just don't know why you're not using that power or how I tell you to use it when I tell you to use it and where I tell you to use it.
Some of you are praying for Jesus to come back right now and you're like, I don't know what you're waiting for.
I would have destroyed the whole thing.
I guess a really easy reset button right now.
I don't plug the TV and plug it back in.
Lord, new heaven, New Jerusalem, new bodies were good.
I don't understand it.
Because when he says, man, God is able to make all grace abound to you.
That's really helpful in waiting.
So that having all sufficiency and all things at all times, you may abound in every good work.
If God is able to do all the things, then why are we made to wait?
Why did Mary, Martha, Lazarus, the disciples all have to wait?
If you know the end of John 11, you know where this is going.
If you don't, just wait, it's fun.
We won't get there today, that's weeks, right?
But if you know where this is going, you're like, what?
I know where it ends up, I know where the story, I know what happens to Lazarus, so why not just do it then?
Why go through the whole thing?
It made me wonder as I read it and studied it, meditated on it, could there be a greater purpose, restoration, transformation in the waiting?
If we press into the story a little deeper, we discover first and foremost that all waiting, all waiting, all you're waiting is for God's
I can promise you this, if you are waiting for anything, if you are waiting in a season, you are waiting for God's glory.
It doesn't mean you're bringing him glory and you're waiting, but you're waiting is to bring him glory.
And we see this from John 11, one through four that David read so well, let's read it again together.
Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany.
Jesus and Lazarus are boys, right?
Jesus and Lazarus are boys, they are, he loves lass.
Right, there are buddies.
The village of Mary and her sister, Martha.
It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment, white his feet were their hair.
Whose brother Lazarus was ill.
So the sister sent to Jesus saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. You see what the sisters did there?
They tried to Jesus, Jesus.
They're like, you know why you should come and heal him?
You love him.
He's your boy, right?
So scurry on over here, right?
He's not just one of the other people.
He's last, man, right?
They tried to, Jesus drew Jesus.
I love it, right?
So as their descendants said, Lord, He whom you love is ill.
But when Jesus heard it, He said, this illness does not lead to death.
It is for the glory of God.
So that the Son of God may be glorified through it.
I wanna look at this theologically a little bit.
The glory of God is a powerful thing.
And here's what the glory of God is.
I wanna give you a working definition, a theological definition on the glory of God.
It's why we exist, right?
To bring glory to God.
What did we lose in the garden?
We lost our communion with God and the ability to glorify God.
So when we are restored in Jesus, when we are saved from our sin, we have again the ability to glorify God.
We cannot do it in our flesh.
But the glory of God is this.
It is the visible,
an experiential manifestation of God's infinite worth, beauty, and holiness.
What you will notice about the glory of God is it is no way, shape, or form about you or me.
The glory of God is the visible and experiential manifestation of God's infinite worth, his beauty, and his holiness.
We see the glory of God visible and experienced throughout history.
And every time it manifests God's beauty, His worth and holiness.
Let me give you some examples.
Abraham waited for the promised son Isaac and what happened?
God was glorified.
Joseph waited in the book of Genesis for his dreams to become reality and what happened?
Moses waited for decades.
For his calling and what happened, God was glorified as he led the people of Israel out of their bondage in Egypt.
Ruth waited for a kinsman redeemer and God
was glorified.
Esther waited to prosper and save Israel, and God was glorified.
Job waited in the suffering and criticism of his friends.
Minor prophets waited hundreds of years for the Son of righteousness to rise, and we are still waiting for him to rise again.
Jesus waited 30 years to begin his public ministry.
30 years.
You know you are the Son of God, and you wait.
Jesus waited three days in the grave to get victory over sin, probably the longest three days in the disciples life ever, ever.
Peter waited by the shore for Jesus to come remove his shame.
John the beloved waited on the island of Patmos until God brought him home.
Creation is waiting every single day for the redemption from original sin.
And they all waited because they knew God will be glorified.
when the waiting is over.
They knew God would be glorified.
So I wonder this.
Here's your question.
How would you wait differently today if you knew resurrection was coming?
How would you wait differently?
The waiting is so hard because you start to wonder, you start to have a crisis of belief.
I don't know if healing's coming.
I don't know if rescue's coming.
I know the promises of God.
I can read them every single day, but I've waited so long.
I've waited so long.
Right?
Israel waited 400 years in complete prophetic silence for a Messiah to show up.
How many days of doubt, but where would they have been if they knew?
Resurrection's coming.
And he writes says this, God's delays are not his absence.
They are often the space in which resurrection becomes possible.
What we're gonna learn from this story is that if Jesus doesn't wait, the resurrection doesn't come.
Right?
If Jesus doesn't wait, the resurrection doesn't come.
If you don't know the rest of the story, then you're gonna find out.
His waiting was not just to do something cool.
His waiting was
for glory.
Romans 8, 18 is one of my favorite verses on waiting and suffering and how do we persevere in this time.
It says, for I consider the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed in
reveal to us.
Here's the truth.
You may be waiting.
You may wait all the way to death.
You may not get your resurrection till after death, but what Paul tells us in Romans is that the sufferings of this present time are nothing compared to the glory that my life and your life is going to be in the heavens and in eternity.
That forever, check this out, forever the angels are going to look at you and look at me and think,
How did they get here?
They'll probably look at me more than you that way.
Like, come on, chat, man.
Come on, come on, God.
And God the Father's gonna point to his son.
And he'd say, that's how he's here.
That's how he's here.
And forever, my life and your life and eternity will reveal the glory of God because sinners born into gravity are able to fully worship
the Lord.
You see, here's the thing about glorifying God.
Glory is future oriented and often revealed after suffering, not instead of it.
It's what makes waiting so hard.
It's where Mary, Martha and Lazarus and disciples all are.
Like Lazarus is sick, not just like a little cough to his cold.
He is in bad shape.
He is going to die.
And you're telling me we're going to hang out?
And God's like, man, there's a glory that's on the other side of the suffering that you cannot know unless you go through the suffering.
And while waiting in that suffering is tough, it helps to remember this.
And I think this would have helped the disciples and it should help you a lot.
All waiting is not just for the glory of God.
All waiting is also for love.
If God is making you wait, it's because he loves you.
I know those are hard to reckon.
If he loved me, I've done this.
If you love me, you would solve, right?
If you love me, then that equals this.
He's like, I love you and therefore you shall wait.
In John 11, we see this clearly.
It says, now Jesus, while he's making them wait,
loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was.
He stayed.
See, as Lewis says, I am sure that God keeps no one waiting unless he sees that it is good for him to wait.
Just reconcile that to your account.
If you are waiting, it's because God believes with his loving heart is unconditional, never-unding, unfailing love that it is best for you to wait.
If you are waiting for anything, it is best that you wait and just do the math on the disciples, Mary, Martha, Lazarus, two days, 48 hours, 2,880 minutes.
What probably felt like an eternity to Mary and Martha was Jesus' way to ensure they saw a miracle, a resurrection, and his love for them and for Lazarus.
If you drop down in John chapter 11, you see this so clear.
If you get down to 35 and 36, where we'll get here in a little while, it says, Jesus wept.
So the Jews said, what'd they say?
See how he what?
Love him, come on, we're gonna be an interactive church.
I'm just telling you, I'm gonna keep pressing until we get there.
You're gonna hate it.
I'm gonna keep suffering through it, but we're gonna do it, all right?
This is the church we're gonna become.
See how he, what?
There we go, that's my people, okay?
We'll work on it week after week.
We get three times every week to work on it, right?
See how he loved him and he made them wait.
What if right now?
God is trying to show you his love by making you wait.
I have a son, his name is trust.
He's awesome.
He came to live with us when he was 10 years old.
He and his two sisters.
If you don't know us or know me, we went from two kids to five on a Friday.
Yeah, it's wild.
The girl is pretty quick.
Jordan and Selena called us mom and dad.
It happened pretty fast.
But trust wouldn't say it.
You have to wait six months to make your adoption final in the state of Nevada.
Six months is a long time to wait.
When you start to wonder,
Is he ever gonna call me dad?
And we asked him.
Eventually we got tired of waiting.
It was probably me, Jenna's patient.
And he said, well here, you guys are mom and dad.
But I don't want to call you mom and dad until it's official.
So we go to the courthouse.
And if you've ever adopted children, it happens at the courthouse.
You're in a courtroom.
My whole staff from Canyon Ridge in Las Vegas showed up.
We had 90 people in the courthouse.
It was unbelievable.
Their last names go to ours.
We get new birth certificates.
We walk out of the courthouse and we're going to take a big picture of everybody who came on the steps of the courthouse in Las Vegas.
And trust looked at me and said, hey, dad.
Hey, mom.
The other day I texted him while I was in New York and said, man, I'm glad to be your dad.
And he said, I love being your son.
Man, it sucked waiting.
But that dad and mom was so worth the wait.
You see, trust wanted our love to be secured.
Not just by God, but by the
laws of the state of Nevada.
I want it to be certain when I look at you and say those things.
You see, Jesus loved the disciples in Mary and Martha.
So he waited to show them what he could do.
God loves the world and therefore is long suffering so that more can be redeemed.
If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.
You are one of the reasons he has not come back.
You are one of the reasons because he loves you and he does not want you to perish in hell for eternity separated from him.
He is long suffering waiting for you to come home.
If you are waiting, could you just do the math and take maybe it's because God loves me so much that he wants me to wait.
Elizabeth L.A. said, if the door is closed, you can be sure it is because God knows that at the moment it is not the best thing for you to have it open.
Anybody else like to kick doors down like me in the name of Jesus?
I at least do it in the name of Jesus, right?
Jesus is here, right?
Nothing good happens on the other side of me kicking those doors down.
I wonder, could our waiting be the presence of God's love rather than the absence of it?
You see, waiting is for glory and waiting is for love, but all waiting has another purpose.
And here's what we learn in the waiting is that all waiting is for growth.
The disciples are gonna learn this lesson right now.
And John chapter 11 verse 14 says this, then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died.
And if I'm one of the disciples, I'm like, yeah, cause you waited.
Jesus walked on water, couldn't go help your boy, right?
Yeah, he's dead.
And Jesus says,
And for your sake, the disciples now, for your sake, I am glad that I was not there.
So that you may believe, but let us go to him.
You see, this waiting isn't just for Lazarus to be raised or to show his glory and love for his friends.
That's what we can sometimes get narrow minded and think that all our waiting is just to teach us a lesson.
It wasn't just to teach Mary, Martha, Lazarus and all the other crowd a lesson.
It was teaching the disciples something to get them ready so that when he died and rose from the grave, they could do the mission that God had for them.
They were going to wait and wait and wait and wait and wait.
They were going to suffer and suffer and suffer.
And so right here, he's like, I'm glad that I wasn't there because you need to believe.
The waiting was to grow the belief of the disciples who would be the sent ones to start the church, to spread the gospel, to make disciples, and to change the world.
And the same thing is true of us.
If he's just 210, tell us it is.
For we, we, not I, not me, we together, are his workmanship.
Created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we together should walk in them.
I don't wanna miss, there's a little theological thing here that is so powerful.
This word, workmanship, is this word, potema.
And here's what it means.
It means that we are his craftsmanship.
We are his masterpiece.
We are his something intentionally formed.
Right now, God in your life is trying to intentionally form you into a person of love.
He is trying to intentionally form you into the image of his son.
And if you're like me, that is really hard work.
He's got to carve a lot of stuff off.
He's got to chisel a lot of things.
He's got to do a lot of inner man and inner woman work, right?
We clean up the outside and he's like, dude, I'm just getting started, right?
The porn, the addiction, all that.
That was just the easy stuff.
Wait until we get into the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
We gonna have to wait because that's gonna take some time.
That's gonna take some work, but we are his masterpiece.
That's why he does this work.
I want you to,
Apply this to your mind and your heart.
We are not self-improvement projects.
We are divine formation.
I think some of us come to the Word of God and we come to the presence of God and we come to church and we're like, here's where I'm just going to get a little better.
No, this is where I get formed by the divine hand of God.
That's why I come into the secret place.
That's why you go into the prayer room.
That's why you come up to encounter guides and say, man, I need God to do a deep work inside my heart because you are a divine formation.
A. W. Toes said, God never hurries.
There are no deadlines against which he must work.
And we as Christians need to extend that to other Christians, other people, other lost people.
God doesn't have a timeline on when you have to be like him at a certain place.
He's chiseling away.
He's using your weighting.
He's using your suffering.
But sometimes we're like, man, you haven't gotten it yet?
You haven't been baptized yet?
What are you waiting for?
Man, God's doing a work.
Let him do it.
Jesus was never governed.
Know this if you're waiting, especially if you're waiting and suffering.
Jesus was never governed by urgency, sickness,
or even death.
We fear death.
It's while we pray when someone gets cancer that they will be healed and not die.
Jesus was not afraid of Lazarus death.
And I don't believe it was just because he knew he could raise him from the dead.
Jesus was not afraid of death.
He was never afraid of death.
Not for a second.
I think he was afraid of being separated from his father by becoming sin for us, but not afraid of death.
Those are two separate things.
When you've been with God the Father for eternity, it's a little scary to spend three days separated from Him and He came and look at you.
Sanctification, sanctification of my friends takes time.
Renewing the mind takes time.
Knowledge, wisdom, discernment takes time.
Takes time.
Impacting and changing the identity of a city takes time.
I got here in 2020, and one of the first things I learned was the good old mantra, right?
Peoria.
It's not that bad.
That's the worst mantra in any city's history, right?
It's worse than Sin City in Vegas.
At least they got it right, right?
Peoria's better than it's not that bad.
It's better than that.
But it takes time to change the self view of a city.
It takes a long time to change a culture.
Creating culture based upon kingdom values takes time.
Planting churches that revive community, guess what?
It takes time.
God planted a seed in us to plant a church in the East Bluff almost five years ago.
And it's still not open.
Brian, what's taken so long?
I don't know.
It takes time experiencing your overflow.
What's it take?
Time.
You're still not interactive yet.
We're working on it.
Thank you, Brian.
It takes time.
It takes waiting.
But the good news is this.
Don't miss the good news.
That's where I started.
If you're waiting, hasn't produced the glory of God yet.
If you haven't yet been loved by God in your waiting.
If you like, man haven't gotten a place where the waiting is growing you.
Here's the good news to Corinthians chapter nine verse eight.
God is able.
You may be here this morning, I have hated every second of the waiting that God has made me do.
God is able to change your heart.
God is able to change your mindset with waiting.
God is able to change your mindset with the suffering.
God is able to change your life.
Man, you're like, man, I've been struggling with faith in God for years.
I still never have heard his voice.
God is able.
Maybe you haven't pursued him enough.
Maybe you haven't drawn close enough.
Maybe you haven't surrendered enough.
I don't know what it is, but God is able.
And what is he able to do in your waiting?
Make all grace abound to you.
so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you and I may abound in every good work.
Don't waste our waiting.
Mary and Martha are going to see a resurrection.
Lazarus is going to end up being one of the few men in the history of the world that can say I was dead, not came back, y'all.
The disciples got to take another step in their belief so they became the world changers that God wanted them to be.
Instead of trying to get out of your waiting, maybe today God could just lead you and say, why am I waiting?
How can I glorify you?
How can I receive it as love from a father?
And how can I grow to be more like the image you originally created me to be?
I'm gonna invite Pastor Marty up and he's gonna lead us into a time of encounter as we just heard God's word.
Marty?